# The Concept of Envy

At the point of writing this, I've progressed much ahead in reading The Difficulty of being good but I still feel that the first chapter (Duryodhana's Envy) is by far the most intense and relatable pieces of writing I have ever read. In my opinion, Envy is a feeling that is as ubiquitous as attraction, similar to the fact that everyone (irrespective of what they tell you) has someone they are attracted to and would like to be involved with them in some good (or kinky!) way, everyone also has atleast one person who they are envious of and would like to defeat or outshine them in some good (or unscrupulous) way. While the emotion of attraction is a lot talked about, almost none talks about their envy.

It's an emotion that comes up in you, you feel it for sometime, but then you kind of realise it's morally wrong and try thus, you squeeze it inside a box and hidde that somewhere deep inside you until it comes again. I'm sure after reading this, you have atleast one person in mind, it may not be your arch enemy, it just might be a very good friend too. But do you remember the last time you talked about your envy or jealousy to someone, probably not. But hints are always there. I'm sure after reading this article you would be able to notice subtle signs of envy in yourself and in people around you. It's present everywhere, it really feels like a superpower once you start seeing it. 

After reading about it from TDOBG, I realised that this is a domain where diving deeper is imperative in order to know my own emotions better. It's proper knowledge would set the red flags early in situations the patterns start repeating because if you feel that love or attraction is the only emotion that induces stupidity in humans, wait till the consequences of envy hit you.


